# Image_Aesthetic_Quality_Evaluation_System_Based_on_Multimodal_Information_Fusion
This project is my undergraduate graduation project, completed in April 2025, and proposes an image aesthetic evaluation system based on multimodal feature fusion, which combines visual and text features to provide more objective aesthetic scoring and richer descriptive feedback through a hybrid expert model.

## Functional features

* **Aesthetic Score:** Scores the aesthetic quality of an image based on the Swin Transformer and MOE (Mixture of Experts) models.
* **Text Description Generation:**
    **Training Phase:** Generate richer image descriptions using the GPT-2 model (loaded via 'text_loading.py') or by calling external APIs, combined with aesthetic scoring as prompts.
    * **Deployment phase (web application) and inference phase (single image):** Use the BLIP model for initial image descriptions, and then use external APIs (such as GPT-4o) to combine aesthetic scoring and preliminary image descriptions to generate more detailed and aesthetically specific text.
**Web Services:** Build web applications using the Flask framework, allowing users to upload images for aesthetic evaluation and description generation.
* **Multimodal Fusion:** Combines two modalities: image features (Swin Transformer) and text generation (GPT-2/BLIP & external API).

## Data preparation

This project used the TAD66K dataset, but it is theoretically possible to use any dataset that contains image and aesthetic scores.

## Web Application Deployment (backend/backend.py)

1. **API Key (Important):** In 'backend/backend.py', replace the 'API_KEY' variable with your own API key (used to call external APIs).
2. Set the Model Path: In the backend/backend.py file, change the path of the pre-trained model to 'aesthetic_model_trained_on_gpu.pth' in the project root directory or use the current 'version4_model.pth'.

3. **Launch the Flask App:**

    ```bash
    cd backend
    python backend.py
    ```

4. **Access the Web Interface:** Open 'http://127.0.0.1:5000/' in your browser (or the deployed server address).

## Single Image Inference (text_loading.py)

1. **Modify the Image Path:** In the 'text_loading.py' file, modify the 'image_path' variable to the image path you want to evaluate.
2. **API Key (Important):** Make sure that the 'api_key' variable in 'text_loading.py' is set to your API key.
3. Set Model Path: In the 'text_loading.py' file, change the path of the pre-trained model to 'aesthetic_model_trained_on_gpu.pth'.
4. **Run Inference Scripts:**

    ```bash
    python text_loading.py
    ```

    The script outputs an aesthetic score, a preliminary description generated by BLIP, and a detailed description generated by the API.

## Front-end Interface (frontend/index.html)

1. **Make sure 'index.html' is in the 'frontend' folder. **
2. **Launch the Flask app (backend/backend.py, see above). **
3. Go to 'http://127.0.0.1:5000/' in your browser. **
